
Notes from Christian Kreibich:

This is a standalone version of Richard Stevens' "sock" program, based
on the code available for the UNIX Network Programming book, at:

  http://www.kohala.com/start/unpv12e.html

I found this version at

  http://ttcplinux.sourceforge.net/tools/tools.html

and cleaned up the tarball a bit. To make sock a little easier to
find, I'm now hosting it on a dedicated webpage:

  http://www.icir.org/christian/sock.html

I will implement minor updates to the code when I feel they make sense
for reasons of clarity or educational value, but I won't make any other
changes (such as additional features or similar).

I'm happy to incorporate build fixes where feasible and necessary, but
I do not give build support etc.

						Enjoy,
						Christian

Notes from Steve Jacobson:

This FreeBSD port is built on top of the original 0.3.2 tarball from
2010, above, downloaded from the icir.org webpage.

Version 0.4.0 notes:

The version of this sock program has been updated to 0.4.0 to reflect
the IPv6 changes.  This version also includes a run-time version option
and better documentation.

The sock program can generate various UDP and TCP packets with various
options.  It can also be run as a client or as a server.

Beyond educational uses, this program can be used in many different
networking contexts to generate test packets.

In addition to the previously existing capabilities of "sock," this port
has an IPv6 option that allows TCP or UDP to be sent over IPv6, or over
the default IPv4.

This port also fixes a couple of bugs in Christian Kreibich's version;
fixes are documented in the source code.

Testing with this program shows that a number of socket options that
are supported for IPv4 are not supported for IPv6.  it is unclear if
anyone is concerned about this in practice.

This port was tested on FreeBSD 8.4, i386; and, FreeBSD 10.2, amd64.

The license is generic educational on all the source files.  Only one
file mentions "GPL"; that is sock.spec, the RPM spec file, which was
added later by a Linux person.  The FreeBSD port should not need that
file.

Version 0.4.1 notes:

The version has been updated to 0.4.1 to reflect the SCTP changes.

SCTP can now be chosen as a layer 4 protocol, as an alternative to
UDP and the default TCP.

This port was tested on FreeBSD 8.4, i386; and, FreeBSD 10.2, amd64.


Build and installation notes:

David Morgan of the Computer Science Department at Santa Monica College
has concise instructions on how to build, install and use sock.  Some
of the following instructions are excerpted from his web page:

  http://homepage.smc.edu/morgan_david/cs75/labs/stevens-sock.htm

To configure and compile sock:

  cd sock
  ./configure
  make

(Optional) to install sock:

  make install

To do a basic clean of the directory:

  make clean

To fully clean the directory:

  make distclean


Build issues:

These build issues were noted on FreeBSD 8.4

1.  make fails with the following error:

    aclocal-1.11: not found
    *** Error code 127

    Issue:  This indicates that the access date on file configure.in
    is too new relative to certain other files.

    Fix:  
      cd sock
      touch *

2.  make fails with the following error:

    In file included from ./sock.h:31,
                 from buffers.c:11:

    /usr/include/netdb.h:127: error: redefinition of 'struct addrinfo'
    *** Error code 1

    Issue:  This occurs if config.h exists in the src directory

    Fix:
      cd sock/src
      rm config.h

